---
layout: 'post'
permalink: '/blog/:title'
---
One of the things I learned so far while studying a STEM field is the fact that, prior to taking the time to study a given subject, I’m usually wrong on the assertions I make. Due to its inherent difficulty and the high level of competence you need to have to get things right, being wrong is the default result, really. You have to study a bit to, for instance, understand the implications of the second law of thermodynamics or to know the physical meaning of the equation $\nabla \cdot \vec{B} = 0$ (fun fact: it has to do with the fact that there are no - as far as anyone knows - magnetic monopoles in nature).

And perhaps that’s what some people who don’t come from a scientific background sometimes don't grasp: that the “most obvious” thing you think about is often not the actual solution to a given problem nor the correct interpretation of reality. It’s not easy to say correct things about celestial mechanics, epidemiology or macroeconomics when you don’t have enough knowledge on these subjects to begin with. Each one is a rabbit hole you would need years (perhaps decades) to actually understand deeper and to make contributions to the field. That’s why people have to have PhDs and do research. That’s what science is all about.

There are people though who think their affirmations can guide them through these difficult subjects, that perhaps their common knowledge based assertions are correct, when in fact they are simply a minor representation of reality, when not blatantly wrong. Even people from their respective scientific fields, who possess a lot of experience on what they do, still are not certain about everything. That’s what it means to be in the edge of the knowledge acquisition process. 

Unfortunately, we’ve had to wait for the strike of a global pandemic to start listening more carefully to what scientists have to say. When it comes to understanding any area that involves science, the first advice we should take would have to be from the researchers and experts in their respective fields, not some random channel on Youtube nor a Facebook page. And that’s specially true for "controversial" (in the sense that they are clearly debunked by science but still gain popularity) topics that imply at least a basic scientific understanding of nature - like the affirmation that the earth is flat or that Covid-19 is just a little flu. 

It certainly isn't the easiest route to take in the short attention span and clickbait headline based information world we live in today.  But the wide spread impact of getting this wrong (e.g spread of misinformation about this virus who already killed so many people, the whole 5G conspiracy stuff, mistrust on vaccines and a lot of other conspiracy theories out there) is too big to leave it aside and just go for the easiest option.
